I am concerned.  

Computer Engineering, puzzle after puzzle, wire after wire, line after line, the joy of mania. Not everyone wants fun. Not everyone wants to help others.  Not everyone sees beauty in billions of electrons blazing before the metals they traverse. Some see only the destruction. Some see only the stakeholders. The bottom line. The stock value. Technology is what I love. Technology is evil. It need not be.

Sacrifice your values for value. No no, these bombs we need are purely educational. Yeah yeah, we’ll sell the cure to cancer, but... Humanoid robotics... well, enough said. Real interview excerpt... probably: 

“What happens when the “trivial” jobs are taken by robotics? We’re raising the wave altogether. Will you be providing education for all those displaced to enter the new workforce? One robot is 80% cheaper than an employee! Surely those who no longer have the option to work will be supported by the government to healthily enjoy their retirement? Oh, I cannot speak for the government, we are a private entity. Who do you think this would impact the most? Probably only people without $300,000 for a niche degree. Well, would your company pledge to support those affected by this exponential growth in automated work? Oooooo... unfortunately all the decisions are made by a group of gold hoarding dragons who have never actually done the work... Right...” 

This country was born of greed disguised as glory, let alone godly. Bared on the backs of giants, tiny men declared doctrines dictating demographics when not a decade ago they rebelled for ‘freedom’. No wonder now our greasy globs of gluttony are hypocrites. Such is only precedence. Those gifted with great prosperity simply grab gleefully for more gold, and how could anyone with less oppose. When the eggs hatch, a new litter crawls out, eager to bite off the fingers of anyone standing before legacy.  

This is my concern:

Militant mechanisms assail the dark corners of streets. Monsters of steel with no conscience, just code written by some idiot like me. Innocents caught in the crossfire of nightmares, casualties may not be weighed heavily in the neural network after all. Kidney stones scrape shower drains in neon lights. Night is not so kind to some. You have to make money however you can when jobs are one to four. Fire rains to control those who do not yield. How can you fight what does not feel? How can you apply for a job that does not exist? How can you be happy with blood-stained hands scratching for more commas?

I try to be optimistic. Technology could do good. I could do good. Yet housing prices raise. Yet unemployment increases. Yet government programs shut down. Yet RFK enlightens us about nutrition. Yet drone-strikes rain abroad. Turn a blind eye. Just follow the path. The rivers you cross are strawberry syrup.

I do not want to contribute to the war machine. I do not want to participate in the skyrocketing systemic inequity. I do not want my excitement to ruin hardworking people’s lives. Can we not do better? If it is dog eat dog, then what happens when there is only one incredibly enormous dog? Is it only then that they would claw at their volcanic belly, fiery eyes seeping lava, praying even one shred of humanity was left? 
 
Wealth and equity are becoming sinister. A deep lurking divide that cannot be fully quantified. It is subtle. It is unfair. It is apathetic. It sees numbers. It sees efficiency. It sees all of us. 