Enter you. Crooked and twisted in your ergonomic mesh chair. Enter you. Slurping down another Celsius and corporate slop bowl. Enter you. Sterile pale light raining upon dark circles.

*BRRRRRRNG* *BRRRRRNG* *BRRRRRRRNG*

The insatiable slack ringing ceases as you begrudgingly put in headphones. 

“We're being acquired. Most of you will be relieved of your burdens.”

How will you scrape by? Feed yourself? Your pets? Yet all you feel is ecstasy. Hope, even. A vacation, maybe.

*DING*

Finally, The Email. “You can stay. You’re welcome.” Ah. Nice. “We will be transitioning our research into more… practical matters.” Okay? Corporate jargon, riveting. “That is, our efforts will go to support Evil Inc. and its stakeholders.” Oh… oh it's like that.

Life is a series of Jira tickets and email-quality meetings. You used to only be bored. You are still bored. Therein lies the danger. Isolated code is just a function, it serves one small purpose. You are tasked to figure out fine-grain image borders. Innocuous. You do not know where this code goes. You do not know it is for facial detection, for sending drones to assassinate those same sleeping faces, for breaching citizens’ privacy, for perpetuating prejudice, for planning ‘least-casualty’ bombing runs, for making families weep. You are proficient, you are efficient, you are convenient. Nothing else to do all day anyhow. 

*BRRRRRRNG* *BRRRRRNG* *BRRRRRRRNG*

A promotion? You wouldn’t turn down free money. You accept. Time moves on.

You are an owner. You do less work and more scheduling. You did not become an engineer to run meetings. You came to solve problems. There is a benefit however; those smidgens of code, those innocent functions, those slightly-less-than-eye-gougingly-boring projects, all culminate under you. You know where the code goes.

And you look closer. Closer at the e-mails. Closer at the company mission. Closer at the paper trail. Closer at the Kool-Aid. And it hits. Where is the line between ‘helping’ your government and hurting its citizens? Where is the line between ‘defending’ your country and razing others to ash?

I was looking into the Cuban missile crisis and most every site talks only about the leaders, Castro, JFK, and Khrushchev. But they were not in those ships. It was Vasily Arkhipov who saved us. Upon receiving orders to fire nuclear warheads, Vasily refused. He decided to resurface his submarine, temperatures rising as the ventilation system malfunctioned, CO2 levels making the air thick with sweat and smog, to contact Moscow. This one check against his fellow soldier's decision saved millions; you and I could have easily never existed. His name should be important, shouldn't it? William Bassett had a virtually identical situation, having received orders to launch nuclear missiles from the US, he stalled, refused, and eventually received a counter order... it was simple human error. Terrifying. 

So what do you do? Turn a blind eye? Leverage a higher salary? Raise your concerns internally? I am sure they will listen. Probably the first they have heard of these evil actions! Thank goodness you brought it up! Your silence will be lucratively rewarded. I am sure they will change. 

Many think of whistle blowing with a negative connotation. “Betraying your company! But they gave you so much! Where is your loyalty!” Right… because nothing bad ever happened from people ‘just following orders?’ Was it honorable then? Support your company, your state, your nation before all. Before tears, before blood, before life.

Frances Haugen was a researcher at Facebook in 2021. She revealed they amplified misinformation and materials linked to teenage mental health issues. The Ministry of Truth. Sweet grandmothers nestled in blankets fearmongered into hatred, expanding rifts with grandchildren, tears of frustration. Innocent teens facing dysmorphia in dark rooms, faces lit by thousands of spiteful, cruel, disgusting posts. She released the Facebook Files, and the globe responded. Congress held trials, regulations on social media increased, and a whistle was blown.

Christopher Wylie was a data consultant in 2018. A freshly metamorphized 24-year old, young as you, old as me. We are anxious answering in lecture. We are horrified of the for-the-first-time blank future before you. Yet, he unearthed that the firm he was consulting harvested millions of people’s data from Facebook, non-consensually. They used this data to exploit users, playing on their personalities to spread political propaganda, influencing the 2016 presidential election and the decision on Brexit. The Ministry of Plenty. He may have been too late to change these results, but it is never too late to hold criminals responsible. A whistle was blown.

Timnit Gebru was an AI ethicist at Google in 2020. She was hired to analyze ethics. Yet, after reporting potential risks of bias and environmental destruction as a result of LLMs, was fired. Hypocrisy at its zenith. The Ministry of Love. Ignore the oil-slick rainforests, the animals gasping through tar-webbed mouths, the temperature's rising, the reefs' shrinking. She co-authored a paper challenging Google, as is her job as an ethicist, yet responsibility was met with punishment. The industry responded, debates ensued, honesty and clarity in AI are now being discussed at length. A whistle was blown.

We cannot forget Edward Snowden, a former NSA employee. Snowden was no fool, he expected life-time imprisonment. He exposed classified information exposing global surveillance by the United States government. They were not alone, there was eager cooperation from high-profile tech companies to assist. No, no, it would be far too public holding him in the US. Exile, now that has a nice ring to it. The best form of feigning benevolence, patch over the truth and paint it malevolent. The Ministry of Peace. Passport canceled, asylum denied, he was abandoned in Russia. I doubt the proletariat in 1984 felt Big Brother’s sinister presence until he wanted them to. Until The Ministries welded an Iron Maiden. Until it was too late. Whistles are built to be blown.

What do you learn from Vasily? From Frances? From Christopher? From Timnit? From Edward? From those who sacrificed their livelihood and comfort; risking disdain and discipline? Maybe whistle-blowing is not honorable, but when honor supersedes justice, who will hold those in power accountable. Is it you? The average computer engineer does not have the means to stop these terrors, only a voice, and you hope and you hope that your peers choose to use it. That you, with your Stanley, with your Hokas, with your bloodied hands, use it.  So you blow the whistle. The bomb doesn’t drop. Wind rustles softly.

Honor is a luxury. Justice is a duty.