What is powerful? What is pungent? What is prone to stick in the back of your throat? Waves, washing through arteries with rippling heat. Tears, salted warmth enveloping skin. Emotions are crooked evil things that threaten to dominate the mind. Glands, pustular, and swollen, release cruel chemicals.

25 letters bring me to my knees. I relents. I grabs my hand and tugs. I hate I for always being there. I hurts others, I lets them down, I is deplorable. I is all I have.

I weeps for the soil suffocated by the sediment of a lost water source. I weeps for the worms forced out of the ground less they drown, only to be ground up by rubber demons. I weeps for blank, gaunt faces scrambling through rubble to find a younger sibling. I weeps, I weeps, I weeps. 

I lies in agony ripping apart cotton clouds in the shape of what could be. I stares at the sky, feeling the hollow crush of a starless night. I wallows in self-pity, bending like that willow in the steam of a more comfortable place. I envies the water, constantly in motion. I watches red wine circle the drain, dribbling from a slack jaw. I is separated, apart, and drifting.

Ground yourself. 5 things you can see, 4 things you can touch, 3 things you can hear, 2 things you can smell, and 1 thing you can taste. I bite down on my lip to strengthen my pathetic body. Five beer cans crunch under my feet -- all out. I brush the tips of my fore-fingers over the four scars that lay on my abdomen. I shrink away from three whispers: a lover, an opportunity, and a future ricochet in my skull. I smell noxious vapors as THC fill my lungs, I revel in the satisfying smoke of nicotine whisked away by wild winds. I taste bile.

I am graduating soon. I feel it’s hand upon the small of my back. The dread leaking off palms like so much mist. I am not afraid. Decisions, relief, decisions, stress, decisions, wrong. Choices that cause a lump in my throat. Ultimatums that make my heart recoil and my head threaten to explode. No, I am not afraid… I am petrified.

It is too much at once. It is too much to feel. It is too much to ask. I focus on what I know.

The soft hum of fans. The whirring of servos. The click of a button. The spark of electricity.

Bullets weeping crimson. Machines spitting oil. Gears crunching bone. Bombs crumbling hospitals.
