Exploration:

2nd grade it started, I think? Brandon, one of my best friends, now married, now lost to me. We wrote songs in an enormous canvas sketchbook. I vaguely conjure images of possums being drawn… the band logo, maybe? Awful, cringeworthy stuff, truly. I would not curse any soul to stumble upon the naive introspections of a seven year old. At least I was vulnerable, I can admire that. There was a journal, I tried and failed to find pictures, but I remember a cloud raining because it had no friends.

Nervousness:

Ms. Merritt (7th grade?) included poetry as a unit for the first time. ABAB and Haiku’s had me infatuated. Unfortunately, this was not a class with just my friends. I was petrified to try… Was this when I became obsessed with lyrics, honesty, expression? I had written songs with Brandon, if you trust my narration. Perhaps, I only rediscovered what I already knew. Huckleberry Finn was around here too, that was fun. They had a journey, a purpose outside of common core.

Governed:

Memories swirl in a blender here. Panic, panic, panic; I remember. National History Day. Competition. I hate competition. Why should researching and writing about an important person or event be quantified, surely it should just be celebrated. Even when encouraged to write about the important, there was a word limit. I distinctly remember hacking 1000’s of words out of our submission, frustrated with the restrictions on doing justice to such a life, it felt shameful. Though, I am sure it aged poorly, we went to state level, where we promptly failed. I gave a quick search of “NHD” in Chrome and found this link, very nostalgic, certainly embarrassing: http://19711422.nhd.weebly.com

Lackluster:

Virtually all of high school falls into this category. Cinder bricks laid upon paper. Irrefutable, argumentative, boring. It should be a crime to ruin beautiful works with hours of analysis, putting into words that which we all already knew. Frustration. English quickly sank to the bottom of my “care-about-or-try-in” list. A shame, we read Animal Farm, 1984, Of Mice and Men, some truly incredible works. But I simply could not focus, could not truly enjoy the message, when every week there was a deadline. Reading and writing quickly became a chore, a necessary rash upon my already aggressive load of work. Unbroken by Louis Zamperini was interesting at least. Floating on a raft, machine gun fire by planes, sharks, POW camps; a hero turned into a seven slide PowerPoint, I am sure it did him proud.

Inspiration:

15 pages to justify an author. Ironic given the number of pages they have already justified themselves. Just read it for yourself. Alas, Kurt Vonnegut was my pick. I fell in love. The snap, the crackle, the pop. Such succinct wit, such sarcastic truths. Enough wasting my time with transition words, enough strung-out exposition, enough being spoon fed emotions and themes. Along with Kerouac, these two artists felt free, messy, raw. It was the first time reading for my pleasure in High School, and the last. I was inspired and frustrated attempting to properly express my feelings about them.

Submission:

University. I enrolled under the guise of syntax and diction, yet I find myself craving more than the factual, the correct. Lab reports, screen shots of oscilloscopes, analysis of numbers; my eyes roll so far back I can see the unfurled smoothness of my brain. Noggin exhausted, Claude available, I became lazy. I complain about the very destination I sweat blood to reach. It is only efficient, after all. Regardless, while designing electronics and computation is creative, the ‘ENGLISH’ is lost. A new language should be coined, something like ‘scientificically bland.’

Hallucination:

Within the last ~8 months, I fell deeper into imaginary worlds, exploring the false, the mischievous, the novel, and it has been wonderful. Worldbuilding, song writing, and now ENGW3315 have been an oasis in the desert of the ‘scientifically bland.’ It is immensely refreshing to drink from that pool, to share a watering hole with fellow creatures suffocating on the sweat of a rubric. Mirages are said to appear in deserts, reflections of the sun on scolding dunes, or perhaps they are but dreams of a raisin-like brain. Regardless, if I was to prune up in the sand, I would rather have a beautiful lie to crawl towards. It feels a release now, to write, to scheme, to express; I enjoy writing, I enjoy lying to a consenting group of idealists, I enjoy losing myself in the tragedy and exultation of non-existent heroes. The 'scientifically bland' will be ever-present, but I have learned that it is not exclusive to the imaginative.
