Reflection 1:

During the first weeks of the class, what expectations were met? What surprised you? What have you learned so far? And how will you apply/use/practice this learning moving forward--in this learning community, and outside of it.

Thank god AI wasn't out when I took AP Lit. English class is a waste of time -- what does writing in a rubric teach you other than Connect-Four. Quote, analyze, conclude. Repeat. 4 Years since an English course, thank god(s). One more until freedom. What makes something "correct" anyway? How can you reduce an idea or emotion to a few correct literary decisions and a one choice multiple response. Bias, bias, bias. Cheeky, cheeky common core construing crap. One more until freedom. 

I have always been so fascinated by music, especially the lyrics. How can such simple phrases evoke such emotion. Is it the "correct" choice. Am I being manipulated to feel such ways. But I feel that. Is it tone? The freedom to express yourself without hindrance of convention nor criticism is paramount to writing of any format. Or... I think anyway? Feels too bold to claim that as fact via the period. Elliot Smith, Kurt Cobain, Chet Baker; they didn't think about periods.

This Bunn character certainly knows what's "correct" yet he encourages the building of novel structures. If I am left to my own devices, I will write very stream-of-conscience, much to the dismay of everyone in my messages. But that too could be a choice maybe? Reading like a writer is not just an analysis... for once. Rather a way of looking at content, written, spoken, or sung, that allows the dissemination of decisions for building something new. 

I expected the "correct" or at least most supported to be paramount here, certainly as an asynchronous 4th year required class. Everyone needs to know what's "correct" before they graduate, if they want a job. Everything at Northeastern does feel in preparation for a job. I guess it should. It is both surprising and stressful to be left to your own devices. As someone destined for a career that only cares about "correct"-ness, that is a relief. 

I have thoroughly enjoyed the style of this class. With jobs, classes, and concerns, the last thing I want is to be reminded of charts and analysis. By allowing some freedom in the way each response is created, I believe more thought is put into the content of the course and less into what is "correct." As a computer engineer, this thought process applied to documentation or at least code, may provide me with some entertainment when reading thousands of lines of drivel.

More importantly, elsewhere in my life I feel more encouraged to create for myself and dive deeper into the books I already adore. I want to know why Sanderson, Martin, or Tolkien made the text they made. I want to understand literature in the same way I feel music. I am not sure I would have thought so with only 4 years of code and circuit boards. 
