Reflection 1:

Thank god AI wasn't out when I took AP Lit. English class is a waste of time -- what does writing in a rubric teach you other than Connect-Four. Quote, analyze, conclude. Repeat. 4 Years since an English course, thank god(s). One more until freedom. What makes something "correct" anyway? How can you reduce an idea or emotion to a few correct literary decisions and a one choice multiple response. Bias, bias, bias. Cheeky, cheeky common core construing crap. One more until freedom. 

I have always been so fascinated by music, especially the lyrics. How can such simple phrases evoke such emotion. Is it the "correct" choice. Am I being manipulated to feel such ways. But I feel that. Is it tone? The freedom to express yourself without hindrance of convention nor criticism is paramount to writing of any format. Or... I think anyway? Feels too bold to claim that as fact via the period. Elliot Smith, Kurt Cobain, Chet Baker; they didn't think about periods.

This Bunn character certainly knows what's "correct" yet he encourages the building of novel structures. If I am left to my own devices, I will write very stream-of-conscience, much to the dismay of everyone in my messages. But that too could be a choice maybe? Reading like a writer is not just an analysis... for once. Rather a way of looking at content, written, spoken, or sung, that allows the dissemination of decisions for building something new. 

I expected the "correct" or at least most supported to be paramount here, certainly as an asynchronous 4th year required class. Everyone needs to know what's "correct" before they graduate, if they want a job. Everything at Northeastern does feel in preparation for a job. I guess it should. It is both surprising and stressful to be left to your own devices. As someone destined for a career that only cares about "correct"-ness, that is a relief. 

I have thoroughly enjoyed the style of this class. With jobs, classes, and concerns, the last thing I want is to be reminded of charts and analysis. By allowing some freedom in the way each response is created, I believe more thought is put into the content of the course and less into what is "correct." As a computer engineer, this thought process applied to documentation or at least code, may provide me with some entertainment when reading thousands of lines of drivel.

More importantly, elsewhere in my life I feel more encouraged to create for myself and dive deeper into the books I already adore. I want to know why Sanderson, Martin, or Tolkien made the text they made. I want to understand literature in the same way I feel music. I am not sure I would have thought so with only 4 years of code and circuit boards. 

Comments:
Henry: Another strong piece, with a confident and engaged (and engaging) voice. What I appreciate about this reflection is it doesn't answer the questions methodically--you have thought about them and then wrote a piece that it meaningful to you (I hope) and which becomes meaningful to this reader. That ability to answer an assignment indirectly shows skill and talent--and I am looking forward to what's next. --Ellen

Reflection 2:

(Quick writer's note/content warning: I was not planning on it, but creating this response got more personal than anticipated and led to mentioning eating disorders, mental-health, and alcoholism -- oops -- it stays at a surface/metaphor level, but I would feel bad not mentioning it. Ellen, please let me know if I should revise this. <3)

"The oak fought the wind and was broken, the willow bent when it must and survived."
— Robert Jordan, The Fires of Heaven

People are brittle. Ever been in a class where after the first day everyone sat in the same place for the term? I guess every single person must have their favorite view of the board, best choice of outlets, and be able to hear the professor loud and clear. Unlikely.

While, I despise floundering business pharaohs revealing the secret hieroglyphs to success, I did appreciate the comment regarding how sterile CEO communications may hurt more than they help. Granted, they have always been boring, but at least we're unlearning that. So frequently, we are taught to be weapons of efficiency, masters of knowledge, yet ruthless, unempathetic, and self-centered. "If you think you’re the smartest person in the room, pretty soon you’ll be the only guy in the room" (Forbes), is a fantastic interpolation of the original quote, although I would wager if you put every CEO from the fortune 500 in a room it would become a pool of blood. "The manipulation of their minds by the homeland society decreases exponentially once they leave" (Forbes). Thank god. It would be awful to keep those values, we simply MUST unlearn those immediately. That way we can drill in the values of America. Be ruthless, be unempathetic, be self-centered. Would you rather be the dog eating or be eaten by a dog?

Facetious, but the point stands. Some memories are important, even if they are at odds with the current climate or considered inefficient. Some things are not as "dire" as adapting to Zoom... those poor business execs. The decision of what needs to be unlearnt is paramount, especially when the biases mentioned in the article are ever-prevalent. Unlearn kindness and you may be rewarded with money. Unlearn kindness and you may be rewarded with loneliness. Unlearn what is important to you and you will certainly be lost. Choose carefully, and if you take a wrong turn, there is always the chance to unlearn.

"The girl who was told her voice was cacophonic may never sing, the kindergarten teacher who snapped at the boy for not following instructions while painting, may never think ‘outside’ the box" (Thrive Global). We must unlearn to both assist and resist society. This choice comes down to each person. If self-conscious, unlearn caring about other's opinions of you, if narcissistic, unlearn judging others. The moment we give in and stop learning, in either direction, we stagnate, we stumble, and we stop growing. Whatever state you were last in is where you will remain. The world is moving incredibly fast, especially in the last decade. No one wants to be a fossil. Learn what helps you in this new land. Unlearn what is hindering. But make that choice yourself, and constantly question it. In a time that rewards apathy and efficiency, learn to embrace empathy, moving this fast, replacing with AI, we may just slip into a human-centered time. That would be comforting.

"It could be a triggered by an event — tragic or joyful — that made your brain suddenly realize a truth that was hidden." (Thrive Global)

Learning is powerful. You are simply not alive without learning. Learning is intuitive. People are complicated. People are messy. People are confusing. Middle school boys are not. The results of tragedy are laughter. Death is a joke and hardship is a stand-up set. Why express yourself when distraction is oblivious. Video games, TV, jokes. Pretty much all you need besides food. Until my sister needed food. Until they had to force it down her throat.

Everything makes sense. Everything has logic. Everything has rules. Life itself is just an enormous equation, ready to be solved. So it was taught.

Cracked eggshells, carpet covered in cabernet, crumbling cadavers crying for control. This was not in my realm of expertise. Ironically, jokes are quite helpful in dire times. Disregard tiptoes, destroy tension, decimate eggshells. An eggshell is hollow. So too are jokes sung to the tune of tears. I wish I could help. Too bad I have never learned to express myself, let alone my love for others. Bottle, bottle, bottle. Erratic, excruciating, embarrassing. You can lead a horse to water.

Scars heal. Pain recesses. Memories do not. Comedy is a defense, if you are serious and genuine then you can be made fun of, you can be hurt. Well, unless I want to remember feeling feeble and useless in the face of adversity, I must learn to unlearn that way of thinking. I would much sooner regret emotionally barricading those I care for than making a fool of myself. Though it is easy to fall for such a trap. I would know.

A relationship and some months of work later I could finally speak about what I feel. Finally could resist that torment of silence and seriousness. Now that I have these skills I should be able to fix it. You can fix everything with the right approach. Iterate, reiterate, iterate. Learn, unlearn, learn. I have the tools now, no, the answers, to help others.

Years and years, hours and hours, nothing. Expressing myself, understanding others, being vulnerable, all for naught. I don't understand why I cannot fix it. What does fixing a person even mean? That they conform? That they act like you? That you control them? What a vile thought. Another thing to unlearn I suppose. Be present, be there, but let it be. You can't make it drink.

Alas, letting an infected wound lie breeds only festering and pus. How do you prevent ingesting the sickness you fail to treat? A car crash. A hospital. A prison sentence. A rehab center. "What do you need to unlearn and relearn? I’ve no idea" (Forbes). I am sure this should teach me something. I am not sure what. I am still learning. I am still unlearning. It is a life-long sentence we bring upon ourselves, cursed forever to reflect, question, and grow. Bend I must, survive I will.
Comments:
This is terrific and honest work, Henry--I am actually going to give it kudos for the class, so no need to revise unless you have something to add to it. (And I will be commenting more--just wanted to reassure you.) --Ellen

Reply to post from Ellen NoonanReply
Like post from Ellen Noonan LikeLike count: 0
Mark as UnreadMark as Unread
Ellen Noonan (She/Her)
Teacher
Feb 9 12:16pm

Reply from Ellen Noonan
This is gorgeous writing, Henry--the poetic way that you are expressing ideas--all the alliteration, which holds the sentences together, even as they show a breaking apart--and the overall pacing and musicality gives so much. You might like reading Eula Biss' essay "The Pain Scale" or "Time and Distance Overcome." Also some of Kazim Ali's lyrical essays. I appreciate how you are taking each prompt to experiment a bit--and they are all paying off--and the way(s) that your answers to the prompts don't read "only" as answers--but could exist outside of a classroom setting: really terrific. --Ellen

Reply to post from Ellen NoonanReply
Like post from Ellen Noonan LikeLike count: 0
Mark as UnreadMark as Unread
HS
Henry Shields
Feb 9 3:43pm

Reply from Henry Shields
Thank you so much Ellen, I was certainly anxious this may be overly personal but I am so glad it evoked feelings! Poetry has long been my favorite medium in English, though admittedly mostly through staring at lyrics rather than traditional poems. I appreciate your encouragement of experimenting, variety is certainly my spice of life, and I am excited/daunted by the visual entry this Wednesday!

I just read "The Pain Scale" and wow. I adore the writing style here. The succinct sentences are punchy, the repetition is hypnotic, the metaphors are palpable. "I strive to remain liquid." "The devil is in the fractions." "...pain must be unpleasant." "Suffering is divine." Wow. It is fascinating to have so many layers of sarcasm and inquiry baked over such a subjective theme.  Of course the best illustration was already made by Biss -- "the patients were not invited to rate the experience of rating," which speaks to this point quickly and comedically. Fantastic. It leaves the goalposts moving the entire time. I took a class in Budapest about number theory. It was conceptually one of the strangest classes I ever took. In that class we had hours of discussing the size of infinity. It was hollow and engrossing.

Consider those who truly have no pain, they typically die very young, I wonder what Biss would have said to that when icing? Yet "devastation occurs" with a category 10 wind. "Bringing us, of course, back to zero." A perfect concluding sentence, tieing up the knot of pain expressed throughout. The continuing escalation in emotion while balancing wit and philosophy is so intriguing. In no way does this quick comment do the work justice, but what a fantastic read. I forgot to record thoughts on much of this text as I became absorbed, to me that is high praise.

I will let you know if I get to Kazim Ali or "Time and Distance Overcome," I don't have as much time as I would like to read, so I appreciate having these less Sanderson-length recommendations! 

Reply to post from Henry ShieldsReply
Like post from Henry Shields1 LikeLike count: 1
Mark as UnreadMark as Unread
Ellen Noonan (She/Her)
Teacher
Feb 11 10:13am

Reply from Ellen Noonan
@Henry Shields I am so happy that you read and loved Biss' essay, Henry; it is a favorite of mine. (I am actually teaching it in my on-ground class, and students there are writing their own braided essays--which is exciting and daunting. Biss' book Notes from No Man's Land is worth seeking out when you have time--not only for the essays themselves but for the accompanying notes that speak in really interesting ways about her methods and her process. (And in some cases, which touch on those things obliquely.) Her writing is a great teacher. Thanks again for all of your really wonderful writing and overall engagement in our learning community; it is a joy to read all of your work. --Ellen

Reply to post from Ellen Noonan


Reflection 3:
I fail to remember the exact years certain events happen, so I grouped by feeling rather than time? But a 'era-line' is kind of a timeline anyhow, right? In any case, this is the format I feel best encapsulates my experience with English.

Exploration:

2nd grade it started, I think? Brandon, one of my best friends, now married, now lost to me. We wrote songs in an enormous canvas sketchbook. I vaguely conjure images of possums being drawn… the band logo, maybe? Awful, cringeworthy stuff, truly. I would not curse any soul to stumble upon the naive introspections of a seven year old. At least I was vulnerable, I can admire that. There was a journal, I tried and failed to find pictures, but I remember a cloud raining because it had no friends.

Nervousness:

Ms. Merritt (7th grade?) included poetry as a unit for the first time. ABAB and Haiku’s had me infatuated. Unfortunately, this was not a class with just my friends. I was petrified to try… Was this when I became obsessed with lyrics, honesty, expression? I had written songs with Brandon, if you trust my narration. Perhaps, I only rediscovered what I already knew. Huckleberry Finn was around here too, that was fun. They had a journey, a purpose outside of common core.

Governed:

Memories swirl in a blender here. Panic, panic, panic; I remember. National History Day. Competition. I hate competition. Why should researching and writing about an important person or event be quantified, surely it should just be celebrated. Even when encouraged to write about the important, there was a word limit. I distinctly remember hacking 1000’s of words out of our submission, frustrated with the restrictions on doing justice to such a life, it felt shameful. Though, I am sure it aged poorly, we went to state level, where we promptly failed. I gave a quick search of “NHD” in Chrome and found this link, very nostalgic, certainly embarrassing: http://19711422.nhd.weebly.com/.Links to an external site.

Lackluster:

Virtually all of high school falls into this category. Cinder bricks laid upon paper. Irrefutable, argumentative, boring. It should be a crime to ruin beautiful works with hours of analysis, putting into words that which we all already knew. Frustration. English quickly sank to the bottom of my “care-about-or-try-in” list. A shame, we read Animal Farm, 1984, Of Mice and Men, some truly incredible works. But I simply could not focus, could not truly enjoy the message, when every week there was a deadline. Reading and writing quickly became a chore, a necessary rash upon my already aggressive load of work. Unbroken by Louis Zamperini was interesting at least. Floating on a raft, machine gun fire by planes, sharks, POW camps; a long term analysis turned into a seven slide PowerPoint, I am sure it did him justice.

Inspiration:

15 pages to do an author justice. Ironic given the number of pages they have already justified themselves. Just read it for yourself. Alas, Kurt Vonnegut was my pick. I fell in love. The snap, the crackle, the pop. Such succinct wit, such sarcastic truths. Enough wasting my time with transition words, enough strung-out exposition, enough being spoon fed emotions and themes. Along with Kerouac, these two artists felt free, messy, raw. It was the first time reading for my pleasure in High School, and the last. I was inspired and frustrated attempting to properly express my feelings about them.

Submission:

University. I did not enroll for syntax and diction, yet ironically I find myself craving more than the factual, the correct. Lab reports, screen shots of oscilloscopes, analysis of numbers; my eyes roll so far back I can see the unfurled smoothness of my brain. Noggin exhausted, Claude available, I became lazy. It is only efficiency, as I harp on all too often, complaining of the very destination I sweat blood to reach. Regardless, while designing electronics and computation is creative, the ‘ENGLISH’ is lost. A new language should be coined, something like ‘scientificically bland.’

Hallucination:

Within the last ~8 months, I fell deeper into imaginary worlds, exploring the false, the mischievous, the novel, and it has been wonderful. Worldbuilding, song writing, and now ENGW3315 have been an oasis in the desert of the ‘scientifically bland.’ It is immensely refreshing to drink from that pool, to share a watering hole with fellow creatures suffocating on the sweat of a rubric. Mirages are said to appear in deserts, reflections of the sun on scolding dunes, or perhaps simply dreams of a raisin-like brain. Regardless, if I was to prune up in the sand, I would rather have a beautiful lie to crawl towards. It feels a release now, to write, to scheme, to express; I enjoy writing, I enjoy lying to a consenting group of idealists, I enjoy losing myself in the tragedy and exultation of non-existent heroes. The 'scientifically bland' will be ever-present, but I have learned that it is not exclusive to the imaginative.

“One day I will find the right words, and they will be simple.”
― Jack Kerouac

Comments:
	Henry: I really love that you chose to write and organize around themes and not time-a theme-line, then. I think that quotation that you end with is terrific, and might suggest you begin with it for the final--and that your final be organized around themes, too--maybe the same ones, maybe new ones. (Or, you could play with the "scientifically bland" idea--juxtaposing your work here with that.) In short: this promises a final rich in possibility. --Ellen

Midterm Reflection:
Henry Shields ENGW3315 Midterm Reflection Dear Ellen, Intraspection was a fantastic read. I certainly have qualms with some of the statements, though the essence of difference I feel is exactly the individuality and communication this article hopes to encourage. Tricky, tricky. “The perfectionist may still write about the detriment of perfectionism. However, if they aren’t working on their perfectionism, then I would consider their writing to be inauthentic,” why? If a 90-year-old veteran speaks about the horrors of war and PTSD but has had no access or attempt to (treat? medicate? better? explore?) their condition, are they inauthentic? If someone lies to themselves but has not yet realized it, are they being inauthentic? I make jokes that absolutely do not reflect my true thoughts, but they are authentically my jokes, authentically my humor, authentically an attempt to alleviate the crushing social paranoia of perspective. I do not know. “If a community member enters a group with the mindset that their sense of self is fluid, this process is much easier,” so struggling with an issue without having started the journey is inauthentic, but adapting your entire sense of self for a social situation is not? It is a difficult label. As with much philosophy, the ideas feel either trivial or inexorable, the dictation of thousands does nothing to alleviate the panic of death. They cannot teach us how to love, but they teach how to express, the correct way to think, the best way to speak, all of which are paramount in love. It is rubbing fiberglass on the soft fatty tissue of my brain. Subdermal, microscopic irritation that can never be fully resolved nor explained. I am always connected with music. Violent, soft, tragic, manic, haptic. But the quality that always rang truest was genuinity. Elliot Smith, Chet Baker, Viagra Boys, raw, grainy, gorgeous. Before I could voice my own feelings, hearing others do so in such an introspective, poetic way made me connect with my thoughts. Even songs devoid of obvious emotion could evoke the emotions of the artist creating this song, either the anger, passion, or exuberance – all authentic regardless of intrinsic meaning. They evoke pictures of tearful letters in faded ink, claustrophobic city scapes overrun with vines and moss, a raven atop the ruined chapel of a field, a single spot of blood on a bedsheet. “The banal is not banal at all, but sublime.” Yet, I would be naive to ignore the obvious. All of my opinions and perspectives are just a result of my own internal philosophy, as are everyone's. Tens of thousands of hours of manic spiraling can never be fully addressed, yet they affect us. Reading what I feel to be self-evident frustrates me, yet often I have walked a similar “spaghetti-ish map” to reach what I now feel obvious. Authenticity, to me, is vulnerability, an unflinching knowledge of every person’s hubris, it is patience, compassion, it is humility, being aware of the Dunning-Kruger effect, and letting other people see you. You. Not the hazy smoke that drips off the mirror we use to check around corners for societal danger. I was born sans-filter. Apparently, not everyone needs to know what I think all the time. Can you believe that? Insults, bullying, embarrassment (usually of my own doing, although Shannon in 8th grade pantsed me in front of the track team so 1 point to her) have strengthened me into a coward. Overly treated steel becomes brittle. Overthinking, overconcerned, overall pathetic. Is that inauthentic? I challenge my thoughts alright but Mike Tyson was a champion for a reason. One resolution I have had this year is to be more ignorant of other’s perspectives of me. It feels counterintuitive to my polite British values and desire to please, but I have an unnecessary amount of anxiety in revisiting social situations as a thought-whirlwind of empty fuel tanks and toxic vapors. In any case, I am slowly learning. I used to be very confident with new people. Sometimes I always am. “I have often wondered how it is that every man loves himself more than all the rest of men, but yet sets less value on his own opinion of himself than on the opinion of others.” – Marcus Aurelius. It feels somewhat pretentious to be quoting Marcus here, I am concerned how that would make others view me. Following this resolution, I attempt putting my all into engaging thoughtfully with the prompts. Whatever sliver of self survives several soul-sucking software sections is allowed a brief breath of air to explore emotions. Some idiot also decided two part time jobs was a good idea. The string is frayed. It is exactly this exhaustion, however, that made me love your sharing of those poetic works as a direct reply. It was both accurate in a comparison to how I enjoy engaging the reader, which made my efforts feel understood, and gave a direct link to search and respond, rather than adding another assignment atop an array of anxiety. I love the grading contract. Perhaps more specifically I love the way this grading contract is being used. Potentially increasingly accurate, I love the way our grading is open-ended and accepting. Probably paramount, I love not staring at rubrics and long conditions of satisfaction. It is freeing, much more involved, and fun. Particularly responding with classmates; it has been incredible to post something chaotic, stream-of-consciousness, and honest. To sit in discomfort with myself as I re-read what I have posted and feel crushing embarrassment, to remember every-time I have been poked and prod, to know I am inviting this possibility of scorn and failure unto myself; and receive praise for it. Even submitting this private letter summons a storm in my chest. “There exists a fantasy of understanding, where the words I speak and write mean exactly the same thing to me that they mean to you.” Since the twisted, jaundiced, and squished Creature opened its eyes, it has been subject to 0-100% everyday for ~16 years. The Creature has done acceptably but the Creature is tired. Unfortunately for Creature, Creature’s life will be segmented into paychecks, spec sheets, and equations. Creature would rather listen to loud music and doodle. Not being subject to a number is nice, for once. Creature appreciates this. Creature feels allowed to express in whatever manner without judgement or ridicule. This is rare. Creature is self-conscious about a whole paragraph referring to itself as Creature. Creature will stop now. Self-praise has long been a… hesitant relationship at best. Steps climbed, hill oncoming, hill mounted, mountain in the distance, back to climbing. “People can do hard things” (Nadia Segal, my friend, in her yearbook). The longer you complain the longer you are ignoring your goals. Every second I enjoy is a second falling behind. How depressing when written out. I remember being at a pep rally and hearing my name; all I could think was I needed to start writing a speech. Another potential for failure. Creativity has never been efficient, so while deeply passionate about music, people, and immersing myself in fantasy, I have ignored these less-than-optimal routes. I can physically fit in a box but I can't fit in a box. Very frustrating. I have always yearned for the quantification of things. Kindness, intelligence, humor, potential. This is the kind of robotic thinking that will destroy humanity, I am sure, yet I yearned. Some ground truth to build off of, some way to place emotions and expression in the same logical path as math and science. That is where I succeeded, and my frustrations with failing to help those around me served only as a reminder of my inadequacy. Though, if I could unwind that thicket of cords, if I could take raging fires and compartmentalize them, if mental health could be a chart, if I could just quantify anything, then I may stand a chance. Imagine how exciting, then, to have a class where creativity is paramount, or at least expression. As part of my curriculum, this counts under the ‘most-efficient route’ while providing the opportunity to experiment and receive feedback on something that actually interests me. Which sounds bad, computers interest me, it's just, a lot, and very heady, and very monotonous, and very logical, and very efficiency centered. Soon I am hoping to run a Dungeon and Dragons campaign, which will require building a world, power system, unique characters, real emotion, and unfortunately many many notes. However, this course has inspired excitement for diving into a deeply personal and exciting project. I have had time to reflect on RLW, and come to realize I do this in my own way. One reads expressions, body language, text messages, emails, even the stream of words I hear as they are branded onto the front of my brain. In all of these ‘readings,’ I think exceedingly hard about the word choices of those around me, whether they may be saddened or angry, how I can best contribute my next choice of words and thoughts towards them. To me, these feel identical, though rather than an anonymous face of pages, I tend to direct these skills towards real-life situations. While this has been unconscious and natural, the process is the same, and assists me in approaching reading with the same scrupulousness of social settings. Hesitantly, I would grade myself an A-, with the caveat that I need to make more time for revisiting comments, but I truly put forth what I can in the weekly prompts, and regardless of success have gotten much more comfortable exploring written rhetoric and freeform expression. In addition, I am keen to explore more of the extra prompts, I enjoy writing and thinking about rhetoric, so hopefully my engineering classes will calm down while I do so! This class has grown from something I simply enjoy, to a treat I ponder when finally succumbing to the sandman. Thank you so much for your openness and enthusiasm so far throughout this course, it has truly made the difference! I genuinely look forward to experimenting and growing the rest of this semester, hopefully I can make something entertaining!

Comments:
Henry: This is certainly the reflection that has me smiling the most today, and those who come after you will be hard pressed to beat it. You are really a terrific writer--there is an immediacy to your work that I admire, a kind of sprezzatura (and you thought quoting Marcus Aurelius--Marcus to you?--was pretentious!). You ended so much, from your lists of singers to various quotations--including a yearbook quote from a hs pal--I just really admire how this moves as a piece of writing; you have a very sticky mind, and all the disparate pieces cohere--here, as you write about (in)authenticity. All of your writing has been this way, really, and I love that taking charge of your writing and output in the course, that kind of engagement. I do hope to read a few more extras--not for a grade, because you are earning an A now, and the quality of your required work should maintain that, but because I simply like to read your writing. Thanks for this! --Ellen
