Dear Ellen,

Intraspection was a fantastic read. I certainly have qualms with some of the statements, though the essence of difference I feel is exactly the individuality and communication this article hopes to encourage. Tricky, tricky. “The perfectionist may still write about the detriment of perfectionism. However, if they aren’t working on their perfectionism, then I would consider their writing to be inauthentic,” why? If a 90-year-old veteran speaks about the horrors of war and PTSD but has had no access or attempt to (treat? medicate? better? explore?) their condition, are they inauthentic? If someone lies to themselves but has not yet realized it, are they being inauthentic? I make jokes that absolutely do not reflect my true thoughts, but they are authentically my jokes, authentically my humor, authentically an attempt to alleviate the crushing social paranoia of perspective. I do not know. “If a community member enters a group with the mindset that their sense of self is fluid, this process is much easier,” so struggling with an issue without having started the journey is inauthentic, but adapting your entire sense of self for a social situation is not? It is a difficult label. As with much philosophy, the ideas feel either trivial or inexorable, the dictation of thousands does nothing to alleviate the panic of death. They cannot teach us how to love, but they teach how to express, the correct way to think, the best way to speak, all of which are paramount in love. It is rubbing fiberglass on the soft fatty tissue of my brain. Subdermal, microscopic irritation that can never be fully resolved nor explained.

I am always connected with music. Violent, soft, tragic, manic, haptic. But the quality that always rang truest was genuinity. Elliot Smith, Chet Baker, Viagra Boys, raw, grainy, gorgeous. Before I could voice my own feelings, hearing others do so in such an introspective, poetic way made me connect with my thoughts. Even songs devoid of obvious emotion could evoke the emotions of the artist creating this song, either the anger, passion, or exuberance – all authentic regardless of intrinsic meaning. They evoke pictures of tearful letters in faded ink, claustrophobic city scapes overrun with vines and moss, a raven atop the ruined chapel of a field, a single spot of blood on a bedsheet. “The banal is not banal at all, but sublime.”

Yet, I would be naive to ignore the obvious. All of my opinions and perspectives are just a result of my own internal philosophy, as are everyone's. Tens of thousands of hours of manic spiraling can never be fully addressed, yet they affect us. Reading what I feel to be self-evident frustrates me, yet often I have walked a similar “spaghetti-ish map” to reach what I now feel obvious. Authenticity, to me, is vulnerability, an unflinching knowledge of every person’s hubris, it is patience, compassion, it is humility, being aware of the Dunning-Kruger effect, and letting other people see you. You. Not the hazy smoke that drips off the mirror we use to check around corners for societal danger. I was born sans-filter. Apparently, not everyone needs to know what I think all the time. Can you believe that? Insults, bullying, embarrassment (usually of my own doing, although Shannon in 8th grade pantsed me in front of the track team so 1 point to her) have strengthened me into a coward. Overly treated steel becomes brittle. Overthinking, overconcerned, overall pathetic. Is that inauthentic? I challenge my thoughts alright but Mike Tyson was a champion for a reason.

One resolution I have had this year is to be more ignorant of other’s perspectives of me. It feels counterintuitive to my polite British values and desire to please, but I have an unnecessary amount of anxiety in revisiting social situations as a thought-whirlwind of empty fuel tanks and toxic vapors. In any case, I am slowly learning. I used to be very confident with new people. Sometimes I always am. “I have often wondered how it is that every man loves himself more than all the rest of men, but yet sets less value on his own opinion of himself than on the opinion of others.” – Marcus Aurelius. It feels somewhat pretentious to be quoting Marcus here, I am concerned how that would make others view me.


Following this resolution, I attempt putting my all into engaging thoughtfully with the prompts. Whatever sliver of self survives several soul-sucking software sections is allowed a brief breath of air to explore emotions. Some idiot also decided two part time jobs was a good idea. The string is frayed. It is exactly this exhaustion, however, that made me love your sharing of those poetic works as a direct reply. It was both accurate in a comparison to how I enjoy engaging the reader, which made my efforts feel understood, and gave a direct link to search and respond, rather than adding another assignment atop an array of anxiety.

I love the grading contract. Perhaps more specifically I love the way this grading contract is being used. Potentially increasingly accurate, I love the way our grading is open-ended and accepting. Probably paramount, I love not staring at rubrics and long conditions of satisfaction. It is freeing, much more involved, and fun. Particularly responding with classmates; it has been incredible to post something chaotic, stream-of-consciousness, and honest. To sit in discomfort with myself as I re-read what I have posted and feel crushing embarrassment, to remember every-time I have been poked and prod, to know I am inviting this possibility of scorn and failure unto myself; and receive praise for it. Even submitting this private letter summons a storm in my chest. “There exists a fantasy of understanding, where the words I speak and write mean exactly the same thing to me that they mean to you.”

Since the twisted, jaundiced, and squished Creature opened its eyes, it has been subject to 0-100% everyday for ~16 years. The Creature has done acceptably but the Creature is tired. Unfortunately for Creature, Creature’s life will be segmented into paychecks, spec sheets, and equations. Creature would rather listen to loud music and doodle. Not being subject to a number is nice, for once. Creature appreciates this. Creature feels allowed to express in whatever manner without judgement or ridicule. This is rare. Creature is self-conscious about a whole paragraph referring to itself as Creature. Creature will stop now.

Self-praise has long been a… hesitant relationship at best. Steps climbed, hill oncoming, hill mounted, mountain in the distance, back to climbing. “People can do hard things” (Nadia Segal, my friend, in her yearbook). The longer you complain the longer you are ignoring your goals. Every second I enjoy is a second falling behind. How depressing when written out. I remember being at a pep rally and hearing my name; all I could think was I needed to start writing a speech. Another potential for failure. Creativity has never been efficient, so while deeply passionate about music, people, and immersing myself in fantasy, I have ignored these less-than-optimal routes. I can physically fit in a box but I can't fit in a box. Very frustrating. I have always yearned for the quantification of things. Kindness, intelligence, humor, potential. This is the kind of robotic thinking that will destroy humanity, I am sure, yet I yearned. Some ground truth to build off of, some way to place emotions and expression in the same logical path as math and science. That is where I succeeded, and my frustrations with failing to help those around me served only as a reminder of my inadequacy. Though, if I could unwind that thicket of cords, if I could take raging fires and compartmentalize them, if mental health could be a chart, if I could just quantify anything, then I may stand a chance. 

Imagine how exciting, then, to have a class where creativity is paramount, or at least expression. As part of my curriculum, this counts under the ‘most-efficient route’ while providing the opportunity to experiment and receive feedback on something that actually interests me. Which sounds bad, computers interest me, it's just, a lot, and very heady, and very monotonous, and very logical, and very efficiency centered. Soon I am hoping to run a Dungeon and Dragons campaign, which will require building a world, power system, unique characters, real emotion, and unfortunately many many notes. However, this course has inspired excitement for diving into a deeply personal and exciting project.

I have had time to reflect on RLW, and come to realize I do this in my own way. One reads expressions, body language, text messages, emails, even the stream of words I hear as they are branded onto the front of my brain. In all of these ‘readings,’ I think exceedingly hard about the word choices of those around me, whether they may be saddened or angry, how I can best contribute my next choice of words and thoughts towards them. To me, these feel identical, though rather than an anonymous face of pages, I tend to direct these skills towards real-life situations. While this has been unconscious and natural, the process is the same, and assists me in approaching reading with the same scrupulousness of social settings.

Hesitantly, I would grade myself an A-, with the caveat that I need to make more time for revisiting comments, but I truly put forth what I can in the weekly prompts, and regardless of success have gotten much more comfortable exploring written rhetoric and freeform expression. In addition, I am keen to explore more of the extra prompts, I enjoy writing and thinking about rhetoric, so hopefully my engineering classes will calm down while I do so! This class has grown from something I simply enjoy, to a treat I ponder when finally succumbing to the sandman. Thank you so much for your openness and enthusiasm so far throughout this course, it has truly made the difference!