"The oak fought the wind and was broken, the willow bent when it must and survived."
— Robert Jordan, The Fires of Heaven

People are brittle. Ever been in a class where after the first day everyone sat in the same place for the term? I guess every single person must have their favorite view of the board, best choice of outlets, and be able to hear the professor loud and clear. Unlikely.

While I despise floundering business pharaohs revealing the secret hieroglyphs to success, I did appreciate the comment regarding how sterile CEO communications may hurt more than they help. Granted, they have always been boring, but at least we're unlearning that. So frequently, we are taught to be weapons of efficiency, masters of knowledge, yet ruthless, unempathetic, and self-centered. "If you think you’re the smartest person in the room, pretty soon you’ll be the only guy in the room" (Forbes), is a fantastic interpolation of the original quote, although I would wager if you put every CEO from the fortune 500 in a room it would become a pool of blood. "The manipulation of their minds by the homeland society decreases exponentially once they leave" (Forbes). Thank god. It would be awful to keep those values, we simply MUST unlearn those immediately. That way we can drill in the values of America. Be ruthless, be unempathetic, be self-centered. Wouldn’t you rather be the dog eating?

Facetious, but the point stands. Some memories are important, even if they are at odds with the current climate or considered inefficient. Some things are not as "dire" as adapting to Zoom... those poooooor business execs. The decision of what needs to be unlearnt is paramount, especially when the biases mentioned in the article are ever-prevalent. Unlearn kindness and you may be rewarded with money. Unlearn kindness and you may be rewarded with loneliness. Unlearn what is important to you and you will certainly be lost. Choose carefully, and if you take a wrong turn, there is always the chance to unlearn.

"The girl who was told her voice was cacophonic may never sing, the kindergarten teacher who snapped at the boy for not following instructions while painting, may never think ‘outside’ the box" (Thrive Global). We must unlearn to both assist and resist society. This choice comes down to each person. If self-conscious, unlearn caring about other's opinions of you, if narcissistic, unlearn judging others. The moment we give in and stop learning, in either direction, we stagnate, we stumble, and we stop growing. Whatever state you were last in is where you will remain. The world is moving incredibly fast, especially in the last decade. No one wants to be a fossil. Learn what helps you in this new land. Unlearn what is hindering. But make that choice yourself, and constantly question it. In a time that rewards apathy and efficiency, learn to embrace empathy. Moving this fast, drowning in AI, we may just slip into a human-centered time. That would be comforting.

"It could be a triggered by an event — tragic or joyful — that made your brain suddenly realize a truth that was hidden." (Thrive Global)

Learning is powerful. You are simply not alive without learning. Learning is intuitive. People are complicated. People are messy. People are confused. Middle school boys are not. The results of tragedy are laughter. Death is a joke and hardship is a stand-up set. Why express yourself when distraction is oblivious. Video games, TV, jokes. Pretty much all you need besides food. Until my sister needed food. Until they had to force it down her throat.

Everything makes sense. Everything has logic. Everything has rules. Life itself is just an enormous equation, ready to be solved. So it was taught.

Cracked eggshells, carpet covered in cabernet, crumbling cadavers crying for control. This was not in my realm of expertise. Ironically, jokes are quite helpful in dire times. Disregard tiptoes, destroy tension, decimate eggshells. An eggshell is hollow. So too are jokes sung to the tune of tears. I wish I could help. Too bad I have never learned to express myself, let alone my love for others. Bottle, bottle, bottle. Erratic, excruciating, embarrassing. You can lead a horse to water.

Scars heal. Pain recesses. Memories do not. Comedy is a defense, if you are serious and genuine then you can be made fun of, you can be hurt. Well, unless I want to remember feeling feeble and useless in the face of adversity, I must learn to unlearn that way of thinking. I would much sooner regret emotionally barricading those I care for than making a fool of myself. Though it is easy to fall for such a trap. I would know.

A relationship and some months of work later I could finally speak about what I feel. Finally could resist that torment of silence and seriousness. Now that I have these skills I should be able to fix it. You can fix everything with the right approach. Iterate, reiterate, iterate. Learn, unlearn, learn. I have the tools now, no, the answers, to help others.

Years and years, hours and hours, nothing. Expressing myself, understanding others, being vulnerable, all for naught. I don't understand why I cannot fix it. What does fixing a person even mean? That they conform? That they act like you? That you control them? What a vile thought. Another thing to unlearn I suppose. Be present, be there, but let it be. You can't make it drink.

Alas, an infected wound breeds only festering and pus. How do you prevent ingesting the sickness you fail to treat? A car crash. A hospital. A prison sentence. A rehab center. "What do you need to unlearn and relearn? I’ve no idea" (Forbes). I am sure this should teach me something. I am not sure what. I am still learning. I am still unlearning. It is a life-long sentence we bring upon ourselves, cursed forever to reflect, question, and grow. Bend I must, survive I will.
